# ArrayComparison
Compares arrays and arrayLists in Java

In Java, arrays and arraylists both can be used to store data. However, their functions and purposes are quite different. First of all, arrays are immutable in size, meaning that, once created, they cannot be enlarged or shrunk. ArrayLists are mutable and can be changed dynamically. Arrays can be substituted to change the size, but that required creating a new array, moving the data over, and, if desired, destroying the old one. An advantage of arrays is that they can store both primitive and object data types. ArrayLists have to convert primitives into an object data type. Arrays can be better at utilizing fewer system resource than arraylists as they are a lower-level tool. I am curious as to what cases would cause someone to value the performance benefit of an array versus the flexibility of an arrayList. I've written some code here to exemplify the differences I've listed above. You can refer to the comments for explanations of what the code is doing as well as how the code exemplifies the arguments I've made above.

At the start of the code, I've imported java.util.Arrays and java.util.ArrayList. These classes allow me to operate on the arrays as well as convert them to strings for printing to console. After that, the first section of the code creates two arrays. The data is copied from the original and smaller array called arrayBefore into the larger array called arrayAfter. The contents of the array are printed to the console so the user can see the changes. The afterArray is two positions larger than the beforeArray, leading to double zeroes at the end of the array.

The second section of my code creates an arrayList, then adds 3 elements to it. It then prints out the contents of the array to the console, adds another element, and prints the new contents to the console. This should make it easy to see how the data changes.
